In order show this memory,
we have to use the x command.
If you look into the cheatsheet in variables and memory here on the right,
we have this command,
it's not so intuitive.
So it might seem a little bit intimidating,
all these characters here n, and f,
and u these parameters,
x helps you access memory.
You are using the backslash here or the slash here to separate it from
the parameters which you can provide in order to format the memory.
So the n refers to the number of units you want to print.
As we have seven characters in Udacity,
we want to print seven successive memory addresses
starting from the address of the character array.
So n is going to be seven for us.
Then we have the format in which we want to show the characters,
and the format actually can be seen here on the upper-left corner of the second page.
This is what the f is referring to,
and if you look into the lower half here we have the parameter t,
which says okay print it as an integer but as
a binary integers that means only zeros and ones,
and if you want to print something in binary format use t.
So we have seven for seven memory addresses,
seven successive memory addresses,
and then t for binary information.
The last parameter we want to use is b,
and b is going to be byte.
So the unit we are going to print seven successive bytes in binary form.
So what we need to do now is we need to enter the x command and we have the slash,
then we use seven for seven successive memory addresses,
then we are going to use t for binary,
and then we're going to 044,
zeros and ones, then we are using b for binary and that's basically here.
The only thing missing now is the memory address where we want to start the operation.
This is going to be 0x7ffeefbff940,
which is exactly the one which we have
gotten from printing the address of string number 1.
Let's hit Enter.
What we can see here now is a succession of bits
and of course all the bits together in one group is called a byte.
So we have bits inside a byte and several bytes in a row,
seven for seven successive bytes.
If you look up the ASCII table,
what you will find is that the information printed as
binaries here corresponds to the letter u in the ASCII table.
This is the D, the A,
the C, I, T and Y.
So this is the Udacity directly inside computer memory.
What we can also do because we have been talking about hexadecimal,
we can change this format into hex format,
we can simply repeat the string and change the t here in our call,
let's look up the format again into an x,
printed as hexadecimal, and then by
changing this column only this one position pressing Enter,
we get the same information printed to the console in hexadecimal format.
So that's basically it.
We have now, taken a look directly inside the virtual memory of our example program
and we have located the location of
Udacity and printed the content of the string as well.
So that's basically how computer memory works. It's really that easy.
You convert information into binary form,
you store the information at a certain memory address,
and depending on the type of information which you have be it the character,
a float or a double,
you can simply print the information to
the console using in this case the [inaudible] debugger,
and analyze it and in some cases,
you might also be able to track down certain errors.